Move the Zeek type interoperability doc (#2770)
brimdata/zed: zeek/type-compat.md

| [`set`](https://docs.zeek.org/en/current/script-reference/types.html#type-set)           | [`set`](../docs/formats/zson.md#343-set-value)       | See [`set` details](#set) |
| [`vector`](https://docs.zeek.org/en/current/script-reference/types.html#type-vector)     | [`array`](../docs/formats/zson.md#342-array-value)   | |
| [`record`](https://docs.zeek.org/en/current/script-reference/types.html#type-record)     | [`record`](../docs/formats/zson.md#341-record-value) | See [`record` details](#record) |

> **Note:** The [Zeek data type](https://docs.zeek.org/en/current/script-reference/types.html)
> page describes the types in the context of the
> [Zeek scripting language](https://docs.zeek.org/en/master/scripting/index.html).
> The Zeek types available in scripting are a superset of the data types that
> may appear in Zeek log files. The encodings of the types also differ in some
> ways between the two contexts. However, we link to this reference because
> there is no authoritative specification of the Zeek TSV log format.

## Example

The following example shows an input TSV log that includes each Zeek data type,

> how it's output as ZSON by `zq`, then how it's written back out again as a Zeek

Reviewer: ```suggestion
how it's output as ZSON by `zq`, and then how it's written back out again as a Zeek
```

#set_separator	,
#empty_field	(empty)
#unset_field	-
#fields	my_bool	my_count	my_int	my_double	my_time	my_interval	my_printable_string	my_bytes_string	my_port	my_addr	my_subnet	my_enum	my_set	my_vector	my_record.name	my_record.age
#types	bool	count	int	double	time	interval	string	string	port	addr	subnet	enum	set[string]	vector[string]	string	count
T	123	456	123.456	1592502151.123456	123.456	smile\xf0\x9f\x98\x81smile	\x09\x07\x04	80	127.0.0.1	10.0.0.0/8	tcp	a,in,set,things	order,is,important	Jeanne	122
```

## Type-Specific Details

As `zq` acts as a reference implementation for Zed storage formats such as
ZSON and ZNG, it's helpful to understand how it reads the following Zeek data
types into readable text equivalents in the ZSON format, then writes them back
out again in the Zeek TSV log format. Other implementations of the Zed storage
formats (should they exist) may handle these differently.

Multiple Zeek types discussed below are represented via a
[type definition](../docs/formats/zson.md#25-type-definitions) to one of Zed's
[primitive types](../docs/formats/zson.md#33-primitive-values). The Zed type
definitions maintain the history of the field's original Zeek type name

> such that `zq` may restore it if/when the field may be later output again in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
such that `zq` may restore it if the field is later output in
```

Zeek format. Knowledge of its original Zeek type may also enable special 
operations in Zed that are unique to values known to have originated as a
specific Zeek type, though no such operations are currently implemented in
`zq`.

### `double`

As they do not affect accuracy, "trailing zero" decimal digits on Zeek `double`
values will _not_ be preserved when they are formatted into a string, such as

> via the ZSON/Zeek/table output options in `zq` (e.g. `123.4560` becomes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
via the ZSON/Zeek/table output options in `zq` (e.g., `123.4560` becomes
```

read from Zeek `string`-type fields.

One exception to this is Zeek's `_path` field. As it's a standard field that's
known to be populated by Zeek's logging system (or populated by `zq` when
reading some [Zeek JSON data](README.md#type-definition-structure--importance-of-_path))
`zq` currently stores the `_path` field using Zed's `string` type.

If Zeek were to provide an option to output logs directly in one or more of
Zed's richer storage storage formats, this would create an opportunity to
assign the appropriate Zed `bytes` or `string` type at the point of origin,
depending on what's known about how the field's value is intended to be
populated and used.

### `record`

Zeek's `record` type is unique in that every Zeek log line effectively _is_ a
record, with its schema defined via the `#fields` and `#types` directives in
the headers of each log file. The word "record" never appears explicitly in
the schema definition in Zeek logs.

Embedded records also subtly appear within Zeek log lines in the form of
dot-separated field names. A common example in Zeek is the
[`id`](https://docs.zeek.org/en/current/scripts/base/init-bare.zeek.html#type-conn_id)

> record, which captures the source/destination IP & port combination for a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
record, which captures the source and destination IP addresses and ports for a
```

network connection as fields `id.orig_h`, `id.orig_p`, `id.resp_h`, and
`id.resp_p`. When reading such fields into their Zed equivalent, `zq` restores
the hierarchical nature of the record as it originally existed inside of Zeek
itself before it was output by its logging system. This enables operations in
Zed that refer to the record at a higher level but affect all values lower
down in the record hierarchy.

Revisiting the data from our example, we can output all fields within

> `my records` via the Zed operation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`my records` via this Zed operation:
```
